Let's look at my morning commute and discuss some hazards I might encounter along my way.
I might slam my fingers when I shut the car door.
When I turn on the engine,
the battery could blow up leaving me burned.
I leave the driveway in reverse and it might hit a trash can or worse,
run into a pedestrian.
On the highway, my car might even flip over in a fiery accident and I break all my bones.
My commute seems pretty scary.
Yet despite all of these dangers,
I still get in my car and drive to work every weekday. But why?
The benefits of getting to work in my car outweigh the potential costs.
In other words, the risk seems reasonable to me and driving to work,
in my opinion, is a safe activity.
Maybe another person sees my morning commute
as too risky and takes the train to work instead.
Or another person will only drive on city streets at
low speed reducing the chance of a high speed accident.
To other people, my morning commute seems like an unreasonable risk and therefore unsafe.
We all have different risk tolerances and we do
these informal risk analysis all of the time in our everyday lives.
We feel safe and we participate in activities that have reasonable risks.